All right.
So we learn everything we need to know about joins.
Let's do some practice.
We're going to take a list of orders table and we're going to take our order break down table.
Now if we put this one to the side you will see here that in this table we have all of the orders that
were conducted and in this table we have their breakdown.
So basically this means that somebody might have bought several items in their order.
For instance this order consists of at least three items a shelf thumbtacks and some lockers.
And we want to match these items to their associate order.
So as you can understand this is going to be a left join.
We're going to be joining this table with this table this one's going to be on the left and it's going
to be LEFT JOIN.
And as we discussed in one of the previous tutorials because these rows are duplicated here what's going
to happen is they're going to roll the associated records in this table are also going to be duplicated
to match the number of rows for each of those records in this table.
And let's get straight into it.
So I'm going to close this.
We just need to remember that the name of the column is Order ID we're joining on call call word.
I'm actually going to copy that close that close that let's start an inquiry at the top we're going
to type in use D.S. training.
Then go and then it will start a query selects start from what's the table name list of orders.
So it's put brackets a list of orders
left join in order breakdown
and what you want to join on on.
So the column name is Order ID.
So I'm just going to copy this list of orders Daut Order ID equals order breakdown and the code name
there is the same order ID so far on this now as you can see we've got the first table that's it up
to there.
That's the first table and then the second table.
And so here you can see let's find one the duplicate there.
So this order consisted of three products books card printer and a headset.
And it was matched to this at least actually through products it might be.
It might come up somewhere else as well.
So it was matched to this order to the actual order here.
And so the records in this table they got replicated several times to match these record so this is
an example of exactly what we're talking about in the previous tutorials.
A live example let's have a look at another one.
So this order 6:9 if it might come up somewhere else here.
But for now we can see that it was in this table obviously it was once in this record was present this
table was because the everything was unique.
These Order ID is a unique column in this first table and this table was present at least at least four
times.
And in this order we had an index tab Locker's printer and a phone.
And therefore this record got replicated several times to match the number of records in this table
so that now we have all these nice pretty columns with all of the data as we wanted.
Now I'll show you one more thing here.
This is quite a clutch.
It's a lot of clutter to write your table name out every time so there's a faster way you can give your
tables aliases so if you say from a list of orders after you say as a and from left join order break
down as B then you can take the A and replace the name here with a and take the B and replace the name
here with B and if you run this now you'll get exactly the same result.
So after you say something as a skill knows that in this query.
From now on you can everything wherever wherever it sees a.
It actually will replace it with this name of this table and for you just it's visually better and it's
faster to type and you call.
It's like it's harder to get confused because there's less text on your your query.
Also you can just get rid of the as just type in list of orders a order break down be a skill will understand
that you're saying as.
And if you run this query same thing.
So that's a shortcut that I always use and you should get into the habit of using because it will save
you lots and lots of time and that's how you do joins.
So maybe experiment with that a little bit.
See what happens if you do an inner join if you are right join the dots.
There you know play around see what you can do and just practice your joining.
We might need to further down in this course.